# Light Sources

The Spectron 2 project uses a wideband light source component as an input to the monochromator. Several light sources with full visible spectrum coverage were evaluated, built and tested for this project. It is important to realize that flat spectrum is not necessary in this application. What is required from a light source is continuous spectrum, with no gaps. Evaluated light sources are all satisfy this criteria. Below is the list of the light sources chosen as a result of this evaluation:

* [LED light source](LEDs). _Pros_: great stability and very flexible brightness control, very compact solution electronically. _Cons_: difficult optical constructs required to blend light output from several LEDs into uniform shape suitable as an input for monochromator.

* [Pulsed Xenon short arc light source](Xenon). _Pros_: great visible spectrum coverage, much more even response across spectrum than any other light source solution, compact package and point light source best suited to guide light into the monochromator (very simple construct - essentially lamp against monochromator entrance). _Cons_: expensive if bought from the source (although could be found on eBay at bargain prices), bulky electronics dealing with high voltage triggering (power supplies and trigger modules).

* Tungsten halogen light with regulated power source. _Pros_: the cheapest and readily available solution. _Cons_: needs substantial cooling, needs collimating optics or fiber optical guide to input monochromator, spectrum is the least balanced of all the above solutions (the blue range of the spectrum is weakest), readily available solutions are bulky and external. *NOTE*: This was also tested as readily available light source with fiber optical guide to monochromator and works fine. It is not however considered in details here and mentioned purely due to being very cost effective alternative to the other light sources. 
